(upbeat hip-hop music)
All right!
Got bit of a quick and fun one for you.
This is one I think you can probably give yourself
try yourself and try to see how you can structure it.
This is just you type into the box here
and it will convert your text into
either sarcastic, funky or unable to structure a sentence.
You know some people don't know how to use periods
and they just dot-dot-dot as they're thinking.
Sarcastic is a bit of a funny SpongeBob case
it's often called.
And funky, I don't even know if this is good or not.
Actually don't ever actually use these.
Sometimes people use these in their twitter names
but they are inaccessible if someone with a screen reader
were to read them back they're just read all funny.
So don't actually use those.
But we're gonna show you how to build it.
Let's open up our Index HTML,
I'm in the 55 sarcastic text folder here.
And I've given you just some base styles here.
Just so I can center it on the page.
Nothing really that exciting.
Then we have the div with a class of typer
that's that white thing here.
And then we have a bunch of inputs.
The only thing you really need to know here
is that they all have the same name.
And what that does is it allows us
to only select one of these radial buttons at a time.
And we are going to be using their value
to pull the different filters.
So sarcastic, funky, and unable.
Okay, so let's get to it.
First thing I want to do is
there's a couple of things we need to select here.
We need to grab the text area that the person types into.
We need to grab the result, which is a paragraph.
And we need to grab all of these inputs.
Like we have here.
So let's just go ahead and grab the text area.
And I probably shouldn't just use a text area
because what if there's more than one.
So let's use the...
Lets take a look at our text area
it has a name of text on it, I'll use that as a selector.
So use an attribute selector, which is square brackets
and we've got our text area.
The other one we need is the result
so we'll say result is equal to the paragraph
with the class of result.
And then we need the filter inputs.
This is going to be queryselectorAll
and inside of that we'll select the inputs
that have a name attribute of filter on them.
Let me just go ahead and select all those
make sure that they're working.
Next up we need
a handler that will handle the outputting of the text.
So we'll make a new function and we'll call
that transform text.
That will take in some text
and it will just update the result.textcontent
is equal to we'll just call it transformed text.
Then we need a listener on this text area here.
Oh, I spelled that wrong.
Text area.
We'll say textarea.addEventListener we'll listen
for the input event and when that happens
we will grab the event and pass the text of it
to our transform text function.
So transform text, and how do you get the text out
of a text area?
Well, e.target that will give us the actual text box.
And then we say .value and that will give us whatever
the user has passed in.
So let's check if that's working
by just simply console.logging the text.
Actually and we can just set the text content to be
what the user has passed in there.
So now when I type in here
there we go, "text area is not defined."
Oh.
That's this one,
get ride of these const logs, we don't even need them.
Now I type in there,
you see whatever I type it's showing up
in the paragraph below it.
Okay.
That is good!
Now what we need to do is to write some filters.
So let's work on the sarcastic text filter first.
Now we are gonna have 3 different kinds of filters.
We have the sarcastic filter, we have the funky filter,
and we have the unable filter.
So what I like to do is
when you have multiple things like that
is I like to stick them in an object
instead of having them all as their own function
and that allows us to group them together.
So I'm going to make a object called filters.
And each property will be the value that is here.
So sarcastic, funky, and unable.
I'll go ahead and paste those in here.
Now these are all going to be functions that are taking
in from a map function
and we'll look into that more in just a second.
But instead of using a property called sarcastic
and setting it to a function
when I give it a save you'll see that
it automatically refactors it.
It refactors it to this.
So that's just a shortcut for saying function like that
and give it a save.
That's not the same thing as an arrow function.
It just makes it shorter.
So let's start with a sarcastic filter right here.
So what we're gonna do is a couple things.
So we need to take the text
and loop over each letter
and in this case of sarcastic
every other letter needs to be upper-cased.
So what we can do here
is we'll say const the modified text,
we'll use the mod variable there.
And we'll say array.from(text)
so let's just console.log(mod).
see what we're working with right now
so, store...
Okay good so every time I type we get an array
of every single letter that the person has in there.
Essentially what we wanna do is loop over this
and every other one we want to uppercase
and every other one we want to lowercase.
So what we could do here
is we could say .map,
well for each one.
And we'll pass it just the filters.sarcastic.
Then what we can do is go back
to our filters here.
And since this is just a map function
our sarcastic method on the filters
can take in all of the arguments that a regular map will do.
So we get letter and we can also grab the index
of that one.
And let's just console.log the letter
and the index for each one.
And then let's return the letter just
so it should work normally.
So now if I type in something here
I'll type in wes.
You'll see that it is logging the letter and the index.
So what we can do is we can say
if it is an even number then lowercase it.
And if it is an odd number than uppercase it.
So we can, in here, we can say
how do you know if a number is even or odd?
Well, there's this kind of neat way of doing it
and it's with the modulo operator.
So let me introduce you to modulo operator outside
of this real quick.
If I have,
I always talk about my kids.
I have three kids
And if I have a pack of Smarties,
Smarties by the way
Smarties, Canada
these are what Smarties are in Canada.
Right?
They're not smarties as you Americans
or whoever else is watching this.
These are Smarties in the US
those are weird.
These are called Rockets in Canada.
Smarties are these things.
They're kind of like M&Ms but not as good.
So if I have a pack of ten Smarties
and I have three kids
then each kid gets 3.3333 Smarties.
Okay.
You can't really split a Smartie into thirds
Right?
So what you might think it's like,
okay we'll math.floor that.
Okay, each kid gets three Smarties.
If there's a pack of 10 and there's three kids
each kid will end up getting three.
If I have a pack of 20, each kid will get six.
Now my question is, how many do I get as the dad?
How many are left over?
Because obviously if I give them three each
and there's 10 then there is one left over.
So how do you figure out how many are left over?
Well you could just do like 10 - math.floor x 3
and you could just, oh there's one left.
But that's no way to live your life.
And what you can do is you can use the modulo operator.
So I have 10 Smarties
and I have three kids.
The modulo operator will tell me
after they are evenly divided, how many are left?
And that's one.
So if I had six Smarties and three kids,
there's none left for dad.
But if I had 10 Smarties and 3 kids there's one left.
If I had 11 Smarties there's obviously 2 left.
If I had 12 Smarties then there's none left
because they are evenly divided.
So the modulo operator is great for knowing
how much is left after you have evenly divided.
Where else is that useful?
Well if I have let's say I have 82 seconds.
And I need to show how many minutes and seconds are left.
What I could do is I could say
82 seconds divided by 60
and math.floor that.
There's one whole minute
and 22 seconds left.
So if you ever need to like know how many
are left after I evenly divide something?
That's what you use the modulo for.
So!
Modulo is great because you can tell
if something is even or not by modulo two-ing it.
Right?
So, 10 mod 2 is 0 because 10 divided by 2 is 5.
It's perfectly even.
Whereas 11 is 1.
So what you can do here is that any time there is 1
it's odd.
And anytime that it's 0, it's even.
So that's just kind of a weird way of saying
we say, if index mod 2, then return letter.to uppercase.
Else, we wanna return the letter.to lowercase.
Let's read that over.
So if it is 0, then we will lowercase it.
So if it is even it will return 0
and we will lowercase it.
And then here is if it is odd it will return 1
and that is truthy, so this if statement will trip.
So it basically say if there is any number at all,
other than 0, then uppercase it.
And if there is 0, then this one actually ends up happening.
Now if we go back up here
we're filtering it.
Oh I've got this red underline here.
Filter was used,
oh I should move this up above it so it stops yelling at me.
Okay so now we are looping over their sarcastic filter.
And then we are giving our mod
so if we refresh this, you'll see every other letter
is upper-cased.
And then what we can do is we can set the result to be
the modified.join on nothing.
I believe that should now
there we go.
Every other letter is being upper and lower-cased.
So that's our first filter.
And I'm just sort of hard-coding that here.
But what would be cool is
if we could use it based on the selection that we have.
So how could we do that?
Well first line of our transform text
could just be grabbing the filter.
So const filter is equal to document.querySelector
and we will grab the name is equal to filter.
And we will find the one that is checked.
And then we grab a .value from the end of that.
Then console.log the filter.
Now when I type in it it says funky, sarcastic, and unable.
Why does that work?
Well this little thing right here,
every time it runs it's gonna queryselector
for the thing that is selected.
And then a .value on the end
will give you the value of the input,
which is this right here.
Another way we could have done it is a filter.
Since we already have these inputs here
we could do something like this.
What do we got?
Our filter inputs
and we could just find the input
where the input.checked is true.
Oh it's not, find is not a function.
Why not?
Well filter inputs is nodelist, not an array.
So we could wrap that in array.from.
There we go.
And I think if I change that, yeah it changes it.
That's probably better.
I think that's better because like
why rerun the queryselector?
Like why search for it
if you already have them.
I think probably a filter would be faster.
Not that this app needs performance.
But I dunno.
It's good to think about.
So let's actually change that now.
We'll comment that one out.
Just leave it in there for you.
But we'll say const filter is equal to array.from
we convert the filterinputs nodelist to an array
and then we find it and we loop over each input.
And check for the one that has a checked attribute.
And then we grab the value out of that.
Because we don't want the dumb node
we want simply the value out of it.
Also, let's change this filter input to an array once.
Because this would also be turning it into an array
every time the person types.
So why don't we take that off
and go up here and turn it into an array just once
on pageload?
Because it's unnecessary to have to keep doing that.
So let's see if that still works.
Okay.
That seems to still be working.
We'll get rid of this console.log filter
and the modified,
make sure everything is still good.
Good!
And then what we can do is take this filter variable
and use it as a property lookup instead
of hard-coding sarcastic here.
So delete that,
and now we wanna say filters.the filter they selected
but in our case because this is a variable
and not a property we need to use square-brackets
to lookup the property.
And now the sarcastic should still work.
And then funky doesn't work and unable doesn't work
because we haven't done those just yet.
All right.
Let's do funky now.
Grab a letter.
Now we need some sort of like dictionary
or lookup of funky letters.
And if you go into the demo or the finished version
you'll see this.
I want you to go ahead and copy-paste this.
Along with the eslint-disable and enable comments.
So if we go up here,
I'm just gonna paste it in.
What this is is an object,
if I take off this eslint here
you'll see it puts it all on its own line.
And that's probably easy for us to look at it.
And this is just a lookup of different,
like f is this weird f.
G is this uppercase g.
I don't know just a bunch
of kind of funky letters that we have.
The reason why I have eslint disable and enable
is because I don't want it to format one-per-line.
That's gonna make my file way too long.
So you can temporarily turn off eslint
and temporarily turn it back on
with these little comments here and that will stop it.
So we'll go into our funky here.
And what we need to do is to first check
if there is a letter.
A funky letter for this case.
And then if there is not, check if there
is a lowercase version.
Then if there is nothing, return the regular letter.
So first one, first check if there is a funky letter
for this one.
So we have our letter and we can use the letter
to look it up inside of our funkyletters.
So if somebody types uppercase T
we'll know that there is a t for us.
So we'll go here.
We'll say let funkyletter is equal
to funkyletters, square-bracket,
the letter that we're looking for.
And we'll say if there is a funkyletter,
return the funkyletter.
And then at the end here we'll simply just return
the original letter
because there's nothing there.
So let's try that.
Go to funky,
Okay, so that's working okay.
So okay, I am trying this.
Now there are some of them where we want to
if there isn't one, we'll check
for the lowercase version of it.
Because some of them like f have a lowercase
and an uppercase version.
So if I just type in f right now
it's giving me that.
And if I type in uppercase F it gives me a different one.
So some of them only have an uppercase
or a lowercase version.
So we'll check for that next.
So say let, and we'll have to change this back
to a let here.
And we'll say funkyletter is equal to funkyletters letter
but we put the to.lowercase on the end
so we check there.
And we'll do the same thing,
duplicate this.
If there's a funkyletter then return it.
And then we have our last little return letter.
Let's try funky.
Looking good!
Last one is unable.
And this will take in a letter
and what we're gonna do is one-in-three spaces
we'll use dot-dot-dot.
So we need a random number between zero and two.
So we need like one, two, or three or zero, one, and two.
And the way that we can do that is if we have math.random
and multiply that by three.
We're going to get a random number.
And we can wrap that in a math.floor.
And get two, zero, two, two, one, zero
so we either get zero, one, or two.
So we'll do that here.
Say const random is equal
to math.floor, math.random times three.
And here I'll say if the letter is equal to a space
and the random is equal to a two,
so one and three.
Then return dot-dot-dot
else... we don't even really need the else
we'll just simply return the letter otherwise.
So what that should do now is...
I am getting some tacos...
So that every space there's a one and three chance that
that space is going to turn into a dot-dot-dot
rather than a regular space
which is how for some reason some people type.
(laughs)
Last thing we wanna do here is that when I click
on each of these it should trigger that filter
and show me exactly what there is.
So what we can do is we can take our filterinputs
and we can loop over each one of them.
And we'll take the input, the input.addeventListener
and listen for a, not a click, an input event.
And when there is an input event
I will do another function here.
Which is going to be the event
and we don't actually need the event
so I'm just going to use the regular parenthesis here.
And what we'll do here is
we will trigger the transform text
and pass it the textarea.value.
So what do we do?
We loop over the inputs,
each input has an eventlistener
for an inputevent and then when that inputevent triggers
we run another function that simply runs our transform text
and passes it the value of the text.
So looking good!
I like it!
So hopefully you learned a thing or two.
The real thing I wanted to get across here
is that you can store methods inside of an object
to sort of keep them together
as well as look them up on that object
with a variable that is populated from some external input.